>> Mike North: Let's touch on arrays.
Right, so we've been working with
primitive values so far, and
with questions we got
a couple object examples.
So here's an example of an array and
pretty intuitive.
One way of representing an array is to use
square brackets following a type, right?
So this is an array of numbers.
We can push 33, and as you would expect,
trying to push a string into
this array will cause a problem.
Now, if we didn't have this here,
we would run into issues.
That's an array of nevers, sounds bad.
Array of nevers as in, it can never
happen, it's never going to work.
[LAUGH] So
never is type script bottom type.
And we will look at that more in detail
later when we're studying top and
bottom types specifically.
But just note that we're gonna
have problems pushing anything at
all into this.
And if we think about it
this is kind of makes sense,
if you could only look at line 57 and
you had to decide the type of aa,
all you can assume is that it's an array
of whatever, it's an array of something.
Now you could say it's
an array of anything at all,
but,
>> Mike North: That's gonna be dangerously
flexible, right?
So an array of nevers, yes it's an array.
But without additional information.
TypeScript doesn't have what it needs in
order to make a nice, safe choice for you.
So that's why for array declarations.
That start out as empty.
You wanna be specific about
what you're putting in there.
Now, if we had even one element,
it's gonna be able to make
a reasonable assumption here.
So if you didn't have
motivation in situations
where you already start out with
something that'll definitely be there and
then conditionally you add other stuff.
Putting that in the declaration itself
as the variable initialization.
Now you have motivation to go and
do that, because it saves you from
having to actually specify that type.
It can be inferred if you
give it some contents at all.
>> Mike North: So, tuple is a fancy word.
Just means array.
It's an array of a fixed length, and
an array that comes with a convention.
So if we were to define a data structure
that could contain a street address,
we could use an object with property
names like house number, street name,
postal code, city.
And then we can pluck
things out as we need them.
Tuples, similarly,
can hold a structured set of data.
But, we just have to remember
that the convention here is,
the first thing is the house number,
the second thing is the street name,
the last thing is the postal code.
And we still get strong typing there.
So these arrays can
only be of length four.
And the types of their members must
be exactly as we declare them.
Now, this is a great way of returning
multiple values from a function.
I was successful in making this fetch and
here is your data.
I was unsuccessful in making this fetch,
and here is your error message, right?
A nice alternative, if you have something
that, through regular use, might throw.
Instead of throwing,
which is good for exceptional errors,
things you didn't plan for,
this would allow you to return in like
a thumbs up a thumbs down for
the result and data about the details.
You can see here that we get type
checking for members of a tuple,
one thing I want to point
out that make it tight in
the future
>> Mike North: You
get type safety around the members,
but I believe.
>> Mike North: You don't
get type safety in push.
So it's gonna regard this as
in terms of the type of push,
it can take strings or numbers.
So with tuples, you're gonna want to be
careful to just sort of set its value and
access its value and
not use the array methods because
they're not really type safe.
There's actually no way to type,
to safely type push
In such a way that based on the number
of elements it currently has.
If we were to try to
incrementally build this up, we
wouldn't know that first we should accept
a number, then we should accept a string,
then we should accept a string,
then we should accept a number.
With that it will require us to kind
of based on state in the array change
the type signature of this function.
And you don't use tuples this way, anyway.
Cuz the only way to get a valid
one is to set it all at once and
that can all be type checked
as a whole statement.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: If you did, for example,
want to have an array that could be either
number or a string,
how would you go about doing that?
>> Mike North: Good question.
If I showed you
>> Mike North: If I
showed you this tool tip here.
Wait, sorry it's,
>> Mike North: This tool tip.
So here, this kind of an example.
If you had read that,
like can someone give me a shot.
>> Speaker 3: Or a number there.
>> Mike North: String or number.
It's string or number parentheses,
entered an array of them.
>> Speaker 3: So you could do like a
string in a function like I wanna array of
strings or functions to return
back in this the sum of that?
>> Mike North: Correct.
>> Speaker 3: Okay, cool.
>> Mike North: And that's the last
thing we'll cover in this lecture.
>> Speaker 3: I'm sorry.
>> Mike North: No, no,
do not apologize for
leading us to if anything,
you're doing me a favor and
teeing up the next sections.
Other questions about this?
>> Speaker 3: You can'actually
just put any like
>> Mike North: Totally, yep,
you could do any You can always provide
a type indentation to loosen things up.
Similar to our let and const example,
when creating these tuples, right.
These things of fixed length.
Like a pair of numbers in an array.
You are going to often have to or
always have to specify the type you want.
Why, because erring on the side of
not interfering with your work flow.
Type script is gonna consider
this to be an array of numbers.
Right, it's not gonna consider this
to be a tuple containing two numbers.
So you just have to always provide this
type annotation here because it's a pretty
specific thing.
Same goes with a string literal type,
if you wanted a string whose type was
only the string Mike, it wouldn't be
enough to just say let x equal Mike.
You'd have to say let x: Mike = Mike.
And only then would you get that really,
really specific thing.